nd true to its reputation it was announced in January 2008 that we would start our year in February, I was excited as I had been home for over six months. I had officially finished at my A-levels in July 2007 and had never gone that long without being in a learning environment. We had been on the campus for two days and as first years we were just getting the lay of the land so to say. One thing that struck me was the state of the buildings in the College, it had been built in 1970 and at the time it was hailed as the finest building structure. 
However with continued underfunding and mismanagement the effect of the years had ravished the buildings, each building displaying this with the green mold growing off of the bricks and stains of black chalk from continued effect of harsh weather. What was once a show of great Malawian architecture was now a dreary image of that picture? Some new buildings had been built to accommodate the expansion but these were very few and lacked an architecture finesse. It was later during that week that we heard whispers that the faculty were refusing to start teaching because of grievances about their wages. I was disappointed but hoped this would be resolved soon. We continued to live in hope for the next three weeks, filling our time with exploring our new home and socializing with other students. I truly was lucky that I had someone I trusted with me there, we also met some of our former schoolmates and we socialized but it was Joyce who was my confidant.
Together we were learning to live in our new reality, I must say it was a bit daunting for me. It made me wish I had, had the chance to go abroad as I knew my friends were not having these issues. At times I cursed my luck for not being smart enough to have gotten a scholarship or my parents not being wealthy enough. During the fourth week, we got word that the administration were shutting down the school as no teaching was being done and keeping us on campus was becoming expensive. So with a broken heart I packed my bags and went back home with a sobering view of the state of public owned Colleges in Malawi.
It was March, by the time the teaching staff and University council had resolve their differences. So we went back on campus and for all intents and purposes officially started the new academic year. Unfortunately Chancellor College still had some more lessons to teach me about life. When we had previously been on campus I had been assigned a room in one of the girl’s hostels. When the University was being built our former President on the basis that most young women were unlikely to pursue higher education deemed it appropriate to build fewer girls hostels than boys. As the new academic year started all the students in other years descended on the campus and suddenly there was not enough room for us first year girls to be on campus. So the administration allocated a select number of us first years to an off campus housing facility.  And I was one of those select few sadly it was just me and not Joyce, she had luckily been allocated a sort of dormitory which she shared with two other girls but it later changed to a proper room. It had been a while since I was the new girl and the idea of being in a living space without my best friend sent waves through me and I was anxious.
And the hostels being off campus dint help matters. There is this distinct separation in my society between those who attended public owned schools and privately owned ones. This is not purely on the basis of class but other factors too. Such as the difference in curriculum, most private schools in my country prefer using International syllabuses while most public schools use the Malawian national syllabus. At the same time in these private schools it is encouraged to speak English only and immense oneself into the western culture. Thus most parents encourage children to speak it at home as a way of mastering it and also try to expose them to western customs and norms. While in public schools as much as English is used to teach, it is more for academic fulfillment and not for cultural immersion. Then there is also the difference in social classes, most of the public schools students where coming from poor backgrounds that still lived in the rural areas. This created a generation of two sections of young adults, those that spoke English and more or less aimed to live a westernized life breaking only into Chichewa when interacting with locals. Then those young adults who still held Malawian customs and norms in high regard but could understand and speak English but only used it in official settings. Thus there developed an invisible partition between young adults in our generation, and this created some tension
I was in the group that had grown up in the urban areas and influenced by western culture, not only in academic institutions but also by watching western TV shows. It had been drilled in us that the more we imitated this culture, the more acceptable they would be of us. At first the only person I knew was Joyce, then we met some of Joyce’s friends from her previous school and they introduced us to other like people. Having come from background of people from all social classes, being with the other students wasn’t that scary for me. But when I lived off campus I wondered who I could bond with. I spoke English most times, I hadn’t lost my mother tongue but I had realized that I had started to forget little words here and there. Holding a conversatio

